Okay, just one more on the devil and the devil and A for us, maybe two more.
I take it you do have an interest in the Middle Ages then.
Oh, certainly. I think that it's very hard for me to imagine a thinking person who would not have an interest in the Middle Ages.
It would be like not having an interest in ancient Greece or in the Roman Empire.
These are things that had an enormous influence and whose influence is still felt.
The Middle Ages is essentially an active participant in the life that we live today in the 20th century.
Okay, that was going through that book and you had the protagonist stand on that barrel and so forth.
When he had that dream it seemed to be that the barrel man or the creature in there was waking.
And you never carried that for. I kept thinking that he would be an actual character in the story and come forth and do something.
Why didn't you ever make him real? Why did he appear just in the dream?
Well, he is real. He's not tangible. He is an influence on the actions of the other people and particularly on Mother Clute and Watt.
Okay. Has that book sold very well, you know?
I don't think it did terribly well in hardcover. It seems to be doing quite well in paperback.
Okay. My last area here really is the Island of Doctor Death material.
Okay, in the Island of Doctor Death and other stories, you used what I think as an English teacher to me, a very unique point of view, which was a second person narrator.
And I wondered why you chose that one.
I think largely as an experiment I wanted to see if it could be done.
I needed a way of, or I felt I needed a very distinct way of setting off the material in the book, the Island of Doctor Death, which is the book that the boy, Taki, is reading in the story.
From Taki's own story. And that was the strongest way of contrasting the two elements that I could come up with.
I needed a very strong contrast in order to get the shock effect when the characters from the book that Taki was reading actually appeared in his own life.
Captain Ransom and Doctor Death himself and so forth.
Neither world, I thought, the real world that Taki lives in or the fictional one he's reading about, I didn't think either one of them were particularly attractive.
And I wondered if a reader was supposed to choose between them.
No, what I was trying to say, I think, was that the kind of literature that people tend perhaps to criticize children for having and reading is actually healthier and more straightforward in most cases than the world in which the children are actually living.
So I took this, the Island with the monster race on it, the ancient monster race and the mad scientist and so forth, and contrasted that with Taki's actual life experience with his mother and the mother's boyfriend and the party and so forth.
Okay, good. I know that I sort of know the answer to this question a little bit. I've read some other statements of yours on this, but I still want to ask you the reason you wrote the second and third stories, the death of Dr. Island and the Doctor of Death Island.
Well, the reason that I wrote the, I get to mix it up myself. The death of Dr. Island was simply that I was talking to Joe Hensley and the Island of Doctor Death and other stories had lost, pardon me, the Island of Doctor Death and other stories had lost the nebula and it had lost to no one.
So the first award, it's the only history and the history of science fiction writers from America to lose that award to no award. Joe Hensley said you should write one called The Death of Dr. Island and now that would win now for sure.
And he said that this is a joke of course. And I thought, well, he thinks I can't do it, but I can do it. So I started thinking about what kind of a story would go with that title, who Dr. Island might be and what the death of Dr. Island might be and so forth, and came up with that story.
And then the Doctor of Death Island?
Well, I wanted to see if I could do it again. People kept coming up to me and giving me various switches on that title because the business with the titles got a number of people spancy. And so I thought, well, I'll try it again and see if I can do it a third time. And I could, but it was sufficiently difficult that I didn't get terribly interested in trying to do it a fourth time.
Okay, I'm sort of winding down. Now David here is frantic for me to ask you this question. I've sort of asked it off and on during the interview and he just wants me to try it another way. Again, about your style. Are you conscious of your style?
I don't think that I have the same style in all my work. I think that what I try to do at least is to write in the style that is appropriate to the story that I have to help. And if there's also a personal style that comes through and is found in all stories, then I'm not really conscious of that.
Okay, for instance, say contrasting the fifth head of Cerberus with the book of the new sun. The book of the new sun is tremendously visual and I didn't think the fifth head of Cerberus was. Is that a development in your style or a conscious choice on your part?
No, I suppose it's a development. I wasn't trying to be not visual in the fifth head of Cerberus. I generally try to be visual. Maybe I've gotten a little bit better at it.
Okay. I ran across a reference. I'm sorry to say I couldn't get ahold of any more information on it, but I ran across a reference that you won an award for verse in 1978. And I wondered if you could tell me about that and how much poetry you write.
I don't write much lately. I won the Riesling Award, which is given by the Science Fiction Poetry Association, for a poem called The Computer Interakes the Greater Crumps. It's about, well, it's about a, you know what computer iteration is.
And the computer is going through what is also called the major arcana in a tarot deck.
Okay. Have you ever had, do you have enough verse that it might ever be put together in a volume and published?
Oh, I suppose it's possible. There should be about that amount around, but I don't see it happening within the next few years.
Yeah. The reason I ask is we talked to Ray Bradbury recently. He just come out with the volume of his verse, which we enjoyed very much. And I see a, I don't know, more Science Fiction Poetry and more Science Fiction Writers writing it these days.
Okay. I guess the last, very last question I would think of, you mentioned this earlier, besides the coda to the Book of the New Sun, what other work are you doing now or do you plan?
Well, I have nothing planned actually. There's another way. I've got so much underway that I'm not anxious to come across any more plans. I have a book called Free Live Free that I'm working on, which is completely unrelated. It's a novel laid in the present day. I have a couple of short stories that I'm working on.
Is that novel going to be a mainstream one?
No, I would say it's a Science Fiction or fantasy novel. It depends on which way you want to classify it. One of the characters is a witch.
Okay.
Okay. Listen, there's so much more we could talk about. You've written so many short stories and so forth, but we've already taken enough of your time and this is going to make an excellent interview as it is. So I think we better let you go back to your work or your thinking, whatever. Is there anything else you might want to say or get on the air that you'd like to get out of, you know, to say?
I really can't think of anything that we haven't already covered. I might mention for people who've heard this that if they're interested in the book of the new sun, they should start with the first volume, which is the shadow of the torture, which I don't think we've talked about much, but that would about do it.
Oh, yeah. Well, yeah, I would assume anybody interested would start with the first volume, but okay, listen, Mr. Wolf, I appreciate this very much. What we will do, we have about a, or maybe six weeks lead time between the interview and the time it goes on the air.
So we will send you copies of the interviews. Probably there will be about a, our show airs every day for five minutes.
And I assume with the length of this interview, we're going to get at least maybe even two weeks out of it. That's what we do with the length of the interview like this is to, you know, five minute segments and go for a couple of weeks.
So we'll send you a cassette of all those shows when they're edited.
Okay, thank you very much.
And we appreciate your time very much and we'll be looking forward to your future work.
I'll be looking forward to your case, sir.
Okay, thank you very much, sir.
Thank you.